10 World Cities That Will Completely Disappear
by 2100
10.
San Francisco, USA
Most people realize the earthquake danger
in San Francisco, yet the enormity of the
potential devastation is almost beyond comprehension.
According to the University of California,
research forecasts a 75% probability that
an earthquake of a 7 or greater magnitude
will occur by 2086.
Will the survivors elect to re-build the majestic
city?
Will they be able to?
Prior to Katrina, the population of New Orleans
was close to 500,000.
Afterwards, the population shrunk by about
half.
It’s rising again, but the demographics
are still far lower than they were pre-Katrina.
The population of San Francisco is about 900,000.
Tall structures abound and there’s no such
thing as a completely earthquake proof structure.
In fact, the population of San Francisco is
shrinking.
Not only is the city pricey, but many are
wondering where they or their relatives may
end up with the city’s hazardous coastline
and predicted disasters!
9.
Venice, Italy
One of the world’s most romantic cities
has been sinking for about a millennium.
The pace has increased rapidly over the last
100 years, with the soil level sinking about
24 centimeters.
Venice’s vulnerability to sea and groundwater
level change is extremely serious.
For example, 100 years ago St. Mark’s Square
flooded around nine time per year, and now
it’s inundated with water 100 times per
year.
The government has been working on plans to
protect Venice, but will they work?
No one knows.
Preserving Venice has been a priority of the
Italian Government for about 30 years.
Several billion euros have been dedicated
to a major flood defense system, called the
MOSE Project.
Proposed since the 1970s, it’s basically
a series of floodgates to stretch across three
openings that connect the Venetian Lagoon
with the Adriatic Sea.
However, the progress of the project has been
checkered with stops and starts, new completion
dates and now possible illegality.
In June the Mayor and other top officials
were arrested on corruption charges involving
MOSE.
It’s been suggested that the City be moved
to higher land altogether to protect its population
and precious art and frescoes.
8.
Detroit, USA
“Motor City” may become “Abandoned City”
as the population of Detroit continues to
decline.
If these trends keep up, Detroit will be changed
beyond recognition by 2100.
The culprits include major economic and demographic
decline, including moves to the suburbs.
At its peak in 1950 the population was 1,850,000,
compared with its present 701,000.
Global competition in the automobile industry,
significant unemployment, crime rates and
severe urban decay have rocked the city.
In 2013, Detroit filed the largest municipal
bankruptcy case in American history.
The unemployment rate is 23.1%, and one-third
are living below the poverty level.
Parts of the city are already ghost towns
as urban decay has set into once thriving
communities.
Some areas look completely wild.
Detroit also has some of the highest crime
rates in the United States — in 2012 their
murder rate was 53 per 100,000, ten times
that of New York City.
A 2012 Forbes report named Detroit the most
dangerous city in the United States for the
fourth year in a row.
In 2010, Mayor Bing put forth a plan to bulldoze
one fourth of the city and concentrate the
population into certain areas to improve the
delivery of essential city services.
In February 2013 the Detroit Free Press reported
the Mayor’s plan to accelerate the program
and desire for federal funding to tackle Detroit’s
problems in order to “right size the city’s
resources to reflect its smaller population.”
7.
Ivanovo, Russia
This district capital and administrative center
of Ivanovo Oblast is in serious decline.
Once a major textile center, the city attracted
women seeking work.
This created a significant gender imbalance
that gave it the nickname “The City of Brides.”
Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, 60%
of the population had to live on food they
grew, a survival strategy known as the “dachma
movement.”
Growing textile competition from China and
other emerging economies also eroded the economy.
The combination of a low birthrate, high poverty,
crime, drug and alcohol abuse, high mortality
rates, poor quality of dwellings, and “grey”
businesses have all but destroyed the once
thriving city as its youth are leaving to
seek an education and re-settle somewhere
with modern industry.
6.
Mexico City, Mexico
Mexico City began as the home of an ancient
empire and grew into one of the world’s
largest cities, with more than 20 million
people living in this modern metropolis.
It’s built on top of the Aztec capital,
Tenochtitlan.
It was here where, in 1519, Cortes allegedly
met Montezuma, the Aztec emperor.
After conquering the Aztecs, Cortes, in Spanish
tradition, placed the square at the heart
of the city, surrounding it by buildings representing
the church and the government.
Yet the city, home to Diego Rivera murals,
cathedrals and palaces, is literally sinking.
The problem is its base.
A dried lake bed makes a poor foundation.
According to government officials, Mexico
City is sinking at a rate of four inches a
year and has sunk 10 meters in the past sixty
years.
So be prepared to walk carefully when you
visit.
5.
Banjul, Gambia
The small West African nation of Gambia may
lose its capital due to a combination of the
rising ocean and erosion.
Banjul is at risk of going underwater as sea
levels rise by one meter as a result of climate
change.
Settlements will be eroded, and over half
of the country’s mangrove forests and a
fifth of its rice fields will be lost.
The decrease in rice production would be disastrous,
as would other environmental changes including
droughts, floods and storms.
As tourist attractions and fisheries are located
in the coastal zones, the economy would be
critically affected.
The government is trying to improve coastal
defenses, but whether they can save the city
and the coast is unknown.
4.
Timbuktu, Mali
When sand dunes advance on fertile land, desertification
is a problem.
The city in southern Africa facing the greatest
danger was a center of Islamic education during
the 15th and 16th centuries.
Timbuktu is over over 1,000 years old and
is known for its tourist attractions, which
include beautiful beaches with turquoise reefs
and many historical sights.
Sadly, your grandchildren may have to find
other exotic locations to go snorkeling, as
some parts are already half buried in sand
despite several projects to re-green the area.
3.
Naples, Italy
Naples is the magnificent capital of the Italian
region Campania and the third-largest municipality
in the country.
As of 2012, the population was around 960,000
with an urban area of about 3.5 million, making
it one of the largest metropolises on the
Mediterranean Sea.
One of the oldest continuously inhabited cities
in the world, Naples’ historic city center
is the largest in Europe and is listed by
UNESCO as a World Heritage Site.
Naples has long been a major cultural center
with a global sphere of influence, particularly
during the Renaissance and Enlightenment eras.
Visitors are treated to historically significant
sites, including the Palace of Caserta and
the Roman ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum.
Its nemesis has been the time-bomb, Mount
Vesuvius, located in the Bay of Naples.
The volcano that destroyed Pompeii in 79 BC
erupts about every 100 years, with the last
eruption coming in 1944.
It’s expected to do its damage once again
in the mid-2000s, putting the city and half
a million people in the “red zone” if
they’re not evacuated in time.
2.
Bangkok, Thailand
Bangkok is in trouble.
The city is sinking, while sea levels are
rising.
Building foundations are being pushed into
the muddy soil and underground aquifers are
being drained for drinking water.
Rising sea levels are the real problem, though,
with estimates giving the city no more than
a century until the streets become canals.
While scientists agree that the problem needs
to be addressed they disagree on the best
solution, while the government doesn’t appear
to be looking for any solution at all.
The city won’t flood overnight, but if you
want to check out its awesome robot building
it may be better to go sooner rather than
later.
1.
Other American Cities in Jeopardy
Rising seas and global warming have put U.S.
coastal cities at risk.
Residents should consider either seeking higher
ground or avoiding any long-term investments.
Since 1889, global sea levels have raised
about eight inches, and they’re still climbing.
Rising seas dramatically increase the odds
of damaging floods from storm surges.
One analysis found the odds of floods occurring
by 2030 are on track to double or worse.
Nearly five million Americans live less than
four feet above high tide.
In decades, New York City, New Orleans, Boston,
Washington D.C., and southeast Florida may
be overcome by flood conditions made worse
by climate changes.
Other cities that could be affected include
Baltimore, Charleston, Houston, Galveston,
Los Angeles, Long Island, Sacramento, Philadelphia,
Delaware, Portland, Providence, San Diego,
Savannah, Seattle, Tacoma, Virginia Beach
and Norfolk.
That pretty much just leaves Kansas, but then
you run into the tornado problem.
And you’d have to live
in Kansas.